# Day-Finder
Before knowing what the app does I want you to find the day of 11-04-2089, google it. Did you find it? 
Let’s talk about the inspiration behind it. You might have wondered what day of the week it might be, it is very simple to know right but what about knowing a particular day 20 years from now or 50 years in the past? What if I tell you it all comes to math? The date is a sequence of numbers when applied a series of operations will be able to lead us to predict the day. It all comes down to math. 
 Day Finder is an app which uses the same logic and predicts the day of any particular date. Sometimes you want to know your birthday or any random day in the future, this app helps you find the day. This app is built to predict any day in the range of 1200 to 2800. Googling 2-12-2787 will not lead to any results so we built this app. It might be very useful when you want to find the day in a far future. This app takes the input in the form of DD/MM/YYYY and returns a day of the week as the output. 
Android app: We used Android studio to make our app, The app is very simple in layout, it consists of one text view, edit view and a button. It takes the input in the edit view box and when clicked submit it displays the output on the same page. Imagine getting to know the day of the week of the next century it can fun. 
Coming to the logic part: It’s a simple program which adds up the day and a month with a specified number, lets’ say January for 1 and Feb for 2 and also add up the last 2 digits of the year. The specified values and code can be found in the GitHub link. ( Will be attaching it in the bottom of the section). The difficulty was faced when a leap year occurs because it has an extra day i.e Feb has 29 days. So to know if it is a leap year or not we used a simple logic if the year mode 4 is zero it is a leap year. If it is other than one then it is not a leap year. The values of the month for leap years are different for the year which are not a leap year. In the end, you get a value say 52, will take this number and get the mode of it. If the mode is 1 then it is Sunday 2 for Monday and so on. It is a very calculated formula decoded many years ago but there were many loopholes we tried to modify it and integrate with our code. 
GitHub Link: 
C code: which takes the input in the format in DD/MM/YYYY and returns Day os the output. 
Java code: The same C code which is converted into Java code because the android studio only works with Java code. 
